hi I'm Jason bender lead designer of
command and conquer four today I'm going
to be talking about the offense crawler
a major gameplay element of cnc four is
that you're playing on a team it wasn't
long before you realized that having 150
buildings on the field that we're
getting blown up by a variety of players
and knocking certain people out of the
match was going to be a problem so we
realized we needed something that could
be a compact base something back into
the game with very quickly and something
that really represented you on the
battlefield thus was born the crawler
it's your base it's your radar it's your
war factory it's a heavy combat vehicle
it's your identity on the battlefield it
represents a lot of different things
well I'm a 3d artist I was responsible
for the look and designed for the GDI
and nod trollish and here is a high res
model of our offensive crawler it was
since they had formula functions it was
important to get them to transform
accurately when they were in vehicle
mode I want them to like a tank that
walked and then when they turn into the
structure mode it was important for me
for to make it look like a building in
that a parked vehicle I have to make two
models and put in one textures you know
I receive a concept which just the 3d
models shape of it so the challenge for
me is to come up with the know the
texture on it's like the skin on that
models my task on the crawler was to
make it come alive so it was a little
bit challenging my task was to take the
crawler after
after modeling it made sure it could
actually transform from unit to
structure and visa versa and also that
the procedure of destruction that you
see featured in the game was working
correctly in cincy for we wanted to
introduce a deeper degree of destruction
try to give to the player a good
satisfaction feel when they manage to
destroy one of the larger units and we
wanted to portray the unit being
literally destroyed little by little and
see the inside of the unit as you
destroy it so we took the larger unit
like the crawler as the player hits the
unit the unit gets literally this
eviscerated or destroyed and you can
actually see the part coming off and see
the inside of the unit and all the guns
hi my name is Aaron Granger and I blow
stuff up on cnc for really our direction
with the crawler our art director
christian brando said make it look
different and so I said okay and we
needed to have some more kind of
interior detail to the explosions on
this we needed to have sort of a inside
roiling of the smoke whereas kind of
before another C&C games you would see
particle sprites just kind of disappear
when the particle ended and I wanted to
get some sort of movement in between the
particles birth and its death the
crawler itself is since it's such a big
unit is every time it hits on a crawler
system you get a difference explosion
coming out of a different different
debris and we'll go through its death
state it has a hold another death
animation that umberto did and then its
final explosion final death and so
that's that's kind of the big deal about
the crawler so the crawler functions as
not only your base of operations a large
vehicle but also your war factory and
your personality on the field it's a
rallying point for everything you do
you